.\" Man page for ssh-agent-fs
.\" View with:  man ./man/ssh-agent-fs.1
.\" Install to: /usr/local/share/man/man1/ssh-agent-fs.1
.TH SSH\-AGENT\-FS 1 "May 2026" "ssh\-agent\-fs 0.1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
ssh\-agent\-fs \- expose SSH agent identities as files via FUSE

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh\-agent\-fs
.RI [ MOUNTPOINT ]
.br
.B ssh\-agent\-fs
.BR \-h | \-\-help

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ssh\-agent\-fs
mounts a read\-only FUSE filesystem that exposes the public keys held by a
running
.BR ssh\-agent (1)
as ordinary files - one
.I .pub
file per identity. This lets you reference agent\-held keys by stable,
predictable paths in
.IR ~/.ssh/config ,
typically via
.B IdentityFile
together with
.BR IdentitiesOnly .
.PP
Each file in the mount corresponds to one identity loaded into the agent.
The filename is derived from the identity's comment, with a
.I .pub
suffix; file contents are the public key in OpenSSH single\-line format.
OpenSSH certificates loaded into the agent (see
.BR ssh\-add (1))
appear alongside regular keys, with their full certificate string as
content.
.PP
The filesystem is mounted read\-only; every file has mode
.BR 0444 .
It is automatically unmounted when the process exits, and can be
unmounted manually with
.BR fusermount (1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I MOUNTPOINT
Directory at which to mount the filesystem. If it does not exist it is
created with mode
.BR 0700 .
If it exists but is owned by another user, the process refuses to start
- this guards against a hostile user pre\-creating a writable directory
at a path that would otherwise be mounted onto.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.

.SH DEFAULT MOUNTPOINT
When
.I MOUNTPOINT
is omitted,
.B ssh\-agent\-fs
chooses a per\-user runtime directory by trying these locations in order
and using the first one that is usable:
.IP 1. 4
.IB $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR /ssh\-agent\-fs/
.IP 2. 4
.BI /run/user/ $UID /ssh\-agent\-fs/
.IP 3. 4
.IB $TMPDIR /ssh\-agent\-fs\- $UID /
.IP 4. 4
.BI /tmp/ssh\-agent\-fs\- $UID /
.PP
The first two are tmpfs locations managed by systemd (on Linux); the
third covers macOS, which provides each user a private
.BR $TMPDIR .
The chosen path is printed to standard error on startup, for example:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
ssh\-agent\-fs: mounting at /run/user/1000/ssh\-agent\-fs
.EE
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SSH_AUTH_SOCK
.B Required.
Path to the Unix\-domain socket of the running SSH agent. If unset,
.B ssh\-agent\-fs
exits with an error.
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Consulted when selecting a default mountpoint; see
.BR "DEFAULT MOUNTPOINT" .
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Consulted as a fallback when selecting a default mountpoint.

.SH FILES
.TP
.IB MOUNTPOINT / comment .pub
One file per identity held by the agent. The
.I comment
portion is the agent's comment for that identity - typically the value
passed to
.B "ssh\-keygen \-C"
when the key was generated, or the path of the file from which the key
was loaded.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Mount at the default location and inspect the identities the agent holds:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ ssh\-agent\-fs &
ssh\-agent\-fs: mounting at /run/user/1000/ssh\-agent\-fs

$ ls \-la /run/user/$UID/ssh\-agent\-fs
\-r\-\-r\-\-r\-\- 1 you you 102 ... work\-laptop.pub
\-r\-\-r\-\-r\-\- 1 you you  98 ... personal.pub

$ cat /run/user/$UID/ssh\-agent\-fs/work\-laptop.pub
ssh\-ed25519 AAAAC3Nz... work\-laptop
.EE
.RE
.PP
Pin a specific identity for a host in
.IR ~/.ssh/config :
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
Host github.com
    IdentityFile /run/user/1000/ssh\-agent\-fs/work\-laptop.pub
    IdentitiesOnly yes
.EE
.RE
.PP
Mount at an explicit path:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ ssh\-agent\-fs ~/agent\-keys
.EE
.RE
.PP
Unmount:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ fusermount \-u /run/user/$UID/ssh\-agent\-fs
.EE
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The filesystem was unmounted cleanly.
.TP
.B 1
A runtime error occurred: the mountpoint could not be prepared, the
agent socket could not be contacted, or the underlying
.BR mount (2)
call failed.

.SH NOTES
Requires
.B libfuse
and a kernel with FUSE support. Tested on Linux; the default\-mountpoint
fallback also accommodates macOS via
.BR $TMPDIR ,
though the binary itself is built and tested against Linux FUSE.

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Shin Sterneck <shinsterneck+ssh-agent-fs@gmail.com>.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/shinsterneck/ssh-agent-fs/issues>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Shin Sterneck.
.br
License GPL\-3.0\-or\-later: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh\-agent (1),
.BR ssh\-add (1),
.BR ssh_config (5),
.BR fusermount (1),
.BR fuse (4)
